appendix 4 HHSC a procedural right up
Cuba trip to on August 25th 1978
congressman Richardson prior and HSC a
staff members G Robert Blakey and Edwin
Juan Lopez Soto traveled to Cuba from
Miami at 8:25 a.m. on an air taxi
service charter plane the committee
representatives arrived in Cuba at 10:15
a.m. they were met by the Minister of
Justice
Armando Torres Central Washington consul
Ricardo s carton American Department
official Senen we're go and translator
Nellie Ruiz de Zarate the committee
representatives were escorted to their
suite room number two zero zero three at
the Hotel Riviera at 11:00 a.m. at 12:15
p.m. the committee representatives met
with Ricardo s car teen Felipe via Sinan
we're ago and translators Juanita
Avatara and Nellie Ruiz de Zarate also
present were two Cuban stenographers
sinem well ago the spokesperson welcome
to the committee representatives to Cuba
and thanked the committee for its
correspondence mr. Vargo apologized on
behalf of the Cuban government for the
postponement of a previously scheduled
trip of May 24th and 25th 1978
mr. boyeur go stressed that in his
opinion there was a conspiracy to link
Cuba to the assassination of John F
Kennedy at that point he handed four
files to congressman Richardson prior
the files consisted of a material
concerning Santo Trafficante be a letter
dated 25th of November 1963 from
Hernandez armas mexican ambassador in
1962 to raul Roja Minister of Foreign
Relations in 1963 see the results of the
Cuban government's research into
misinformation linking the Cuban
government to the assassination of
President John F Kennedy and D the
report of the Investigative Committee of
the International Tribunal of the 11th
Festival reporting on the defamation
campaign to link Cuba
to the assassination of John F Kennedy
mr. Vargo stated that both was savvy osq
Lopez and Alfredo Mirabal Diaz would
that day be made available for
interviews
mr. Burgos stated that Neil o Otero
would be made available for interview
the following day 26th of August 1978
footnote in 1963 nila Otero as an
official in the Cuban government's
Ministry of Foreign Relations
interviewed to say be osq about Lee
Harvey Oswald's visits to the Cuban
consulate and footnote mr. Vargo stated
that Rogelio Rodriguez was presently
stationed in West Germany footnote in
1963 the Cuban government employed
Rogelio Rodriguez at the Cuban embassy
the committee wished to interview mr.
Rodriguez about Lee Harvey Oswald's
visits to the Cuban embassy and
employees reactions to the Kennedy
assassination and footnote where ergo
stated that Ricardo s car teen
previously interviewed mr. Rodriguez and
was told by Rodriguez that he had had no
contact with Lee Harvey Oswald mr. Vargo
stated that if the committee still
desired to interview Rodriguez he would
be made available to the committee mr.
Vargo stated that an interview with
Rolando Cabella cicadas would be
arranged
footnote Rolando Cabella known as M lash
was prominent in the Senate Select
Committee's book 5 which reported the
possibility that the Central
Intelligence Agency's attempts to
assassinate Cuban President Fidel Castro
provoked the Cuban government to
orchestrate the assassination of
President Kennedy in retaliation end
footnote mr. Vargo asked if the
committee was still interested in
interviewing orestes guillermo ruiz
petra's footnote in 1963 the Cuban
government employed arrest s Guillermo
Ruiz Perez at the Cuban embassy the
committee wished to interview mr.
Rodriguez about Lee Harvey Oswald's
visits to the Cuban consulate and about
the Cuban embassy employees reactions to
the Kennedy assassination in addition
mr. Ruiz is the cousin-in-law
of one of the most active anti-castro
eyes
Antonio of Asiana Blanche end footnote
mr. Vargo stated that the Cuban
government had no record of a citizen
named grisel Rubio footnote grisel Rubio
claimed in a letter December 1963 to DRI
that Ruby had been in Cuba in 1962 or
1963 visiting Salomon Pratt khun's the
committee located and interviewed miss
Rubio in Miami in footnote mr. boyeur go
inquired whether the committee
representatives were interested in
watching the video taped statements of
James Wolcott and Philip Agee at the
tribunal footnote James Wolcott is an ex
CIA employee who appeared voluntarily in
August 1978 at the Cuban government's
tribunal which accused the CIA of
complicity in the John F Kennedy
assassination
Philip Agee is an ex CIA employee who
appeared voluntarily in August 1978 at
the Cuban government's tribunal which
accused the CIA of complicity in the
John F Kennedy assassination the
tribunal held in August 1978 was an
effort by the Cuban government to accuse
the CIA of complicity in the John F
Kennedy assassination X CIA agents James
Wolcott and Philip Agee testified at the
tribunal along with ex Cuban consul in
Mexico whose CBO askew end footnote
congressman Pryor responded that the
committee's representatives would want
to view the wilcott and Agee videotaped
statements mr. Vargo stated that our
schedule included dinner with the
Minister of Justice at 8:00 p.m. on 25th
of August 1978 fishing on 27th of August
1978 Sunday and a farewell dinner on
28th of August 1978 congressman Pryor
thanked the Cuban officials for making
both the documents and witnesses
available to the Select Committee
professor Blakey stated that the
committee was no longer interested in
interviewing Rolando Cabella mr. Blakey
stated that grisel Rubio had been found
in Miami and interviewed by a committee
investigator
mr. Blakey stated that the committee
wanted to interview arreste Guillermo
Ruiz Padres for two reasons he worked at
the Cuban embassy in September 1963 when
Oswald allegedly visited the Cuban
compound in Mexico City and he is
married to the cousin of a
counter-revolutionary Antonio of Asiana
Blanche mr. Blakey stated that Rogelio
Rodriguez need not be interviewed
captain Felipe via stated that the Cuban
government relying on the seriousness
and honesty of the committee's work
thought that the committee should have
knowledge of cue Bella's statements mr.
via stated that the committee still
needed to provide the Cuban government
with the following a a workable formula
on counter revolutionaries that could be
used by the Cuban government to aid the
committee in its investigation of such
organizations be copies of Lee Harvey
Oswald's signatures that the Cuban
government could use to perform its own
handwriting comparison test and see e
Howard hunt s' aliases mr. Blakey stated
that examples of Lee Harvey Oswald's
handwriting would be forthcoming mr.
Blakey stated that the committee had not
yet developed a formula for identifying
counter-revolutionary groups active
against the Cuban government in 1963 or
a method for providing EE howard hunts
aliases mr. Blakey stressed that both
these areas would be discussed in the
committee's final report at 1:00 p.m.
the first work session ended at 3:15
p.m. House Select Committee on
assassinations Representatives
interviewed one Nilo Atarot
in room two zero zero three of the Hotel
Riviera present or congressman
Richardson Pryor G Robert Blakey Edwin
Juan Lopez Soto Sen and we're ago
Ricardo s car team captain Felipe via
translator Juanita vera and two
stenographers the interview ended at
5:15 p.m. at 8:00 p.m. the committee's
representatives met sin and weather go
and translator Nellie Louise de Zarate
at the Hotel Riviera's Lobby
the group was chauffeured to the Bois de
ikita del medio one of Cuba's mo
famous restaurants were they dined with
the Minister of Justice
Armando Torres central at 10:15 a.m.
26th of August 1978 select committee
representatives interviewed Alfredo
Mirabal Diaz in room 2 0 0 3 at the
Hotel Riviera footnote Alfredo Miller
ball Diaz assumed the console position
in the Cuban government's Mexico City
consulate on September 2nd 1963 he was
present during all of Oswald's visits to
the consulate in footnote present were
congressman Richardson Pryor G Robert
Blakey edwin juan lopez soto sin and
wetter go captain felipe via ricardo s
carton translators Juanita Vera and
Nellie Ruiz de Zarate and two
stenographers the interview ended at
12:45 p.m.
after the Mira bottle interview mr.
Vargo asked whether the HSC a
representatives wished to interview jose
verde see aver Dasia the warden of tres
cornea while santos Trafficante was a
detainee footnote the committee wished
to question mr. Vader Dasia
about the identities of the organized
crime figures detained in tress cornea
at the inception of the cuban
revolutionary government end footnote
when congressman richardson prior stated
that the committee would indeed be
interested in interviewing jose vertice
of odyssia mr. Boyer go stated that he
would be available for an interview at 3
p.m. at 3:30 p.m. HS CA representatives
interviewed jose verde see aver Dasia in
room two zero zero three of the Hotel
Riviera present or congressman
Richardson Pryor G Robert Blakey Edwin
Juan Lopez Soto sin and whether go
captain Felipe via Ricardo s carton at
Reyes Gutierrez translators Juanita Vera
and Nellie Ruiz de Zarate and two
stenographers the interview ended at
4:20 p.m. on Sunday morning 27th of
August 1978 the Cuban government's
representatives took the select
committee representative
to Varadero beach at 8:35 p.m. select
committee representatives interviewed
arrest s guillermo Ruiz Perez at the
hotel internationale at Varadero beach
present or congressman richardson prior
G Robert Blakey Edwin wanna Lopez Soto
Ricardo s carton captain Felipe via
Sinan well ago and translator Juanita
Vera because there were no stenographers
present the Cuban representatives tape
recorded the interview the interview
ended at 9:20 p.m. on 28th of August
1978 at 10:25 a.m. HS CA representatives
interviewed Rolando kou Bella cicadas in
room 2 0 0 3 at the Hotel Riviera
present or congressman Richardson prior
G Robert Blakey Edwin Juan Lopez Soto
Ricardo s carton captain Felipe via
Senen boiler go translator Juanita Vera
and Nellie Louise de Zarate and two
stenographers also present was Antonio
Hernandez who escorted mr. Koo Bella
from prison to the hotel the interview
ended at 11:45 p.m. at 3:25 p.m. HSC a
representatives interviewed Maria Teresa
Proenza he Proenza in room 2 0 0 3 at
the Hotel Riviera present were
congressman Richardson Pryor G Robert
Blakey edwin juan lopez soto ricardo s
car teen captain felipe via san and
Weller go Antonio Hernandez translator
Nellie Lou Ruiz de Zarate and two
stenographers footnote in 1963 the Cuban
government employed Maria Teresa Proenza
euro Enza at the Cuban embassy the
committee wished to interview miss
Proenza about Lee Harvey Oswald's visits
to the Cuban consulate and about the
Cuban embassy employees reactions to the
assassination of John F Kennedy also
CHCs a interview of Maria Theresa
Proenza a pro Anza August 28 1978
JFK document end footnote the interview
ended at 4:15 p.m.
on 29th of August 1978 at 9:30 a.m. the
HSC a representatives met the Cuban
delegation for a final work session in
room 2 zero zero three of the Hotel
Riviera present where congressman
Richardson Pryor G Robert Blakey Edwin
Juan Lopez
Ricardo s carotene Sen and wetter go
captain Felipe via translators Juanita
Vera and Nellie Ruiz de Zarate and two
stenographers the Cuban delegation
spokesperson Sen and we're go explained
that mr. Manuel piero
was out of the country and therefore an
interview could not be arranged footnote
in 1963 Manuel piero
chief of the Ministry of Foreign
Relations interviewed si Bo asked you
about Lee Harvey Oswald's visits to the
Cuban consulate in addition mr. pinata
was the Cuban revolutionary government
official who met with Santo Trafficante
and gave him 24 hours to leave the
country
end footnote mister where go explain
that the Cuban delegation had located
Luisa Calderon quatre Alero but because
she was ill an interview could not be
arranged mr. Vargo suggested that the
HSC a four word questions to the Cuban
government miss Calderon answers would
then be forwarded to the committee mr.
Vargo explained that Raoul Roja had a
very busy schedule mr. Rohit felt that
he could not add any more information to
what Nilo Otero had already provided and
declined to the interview material
handed to the HSC a representatives at
this time included a a list of persons
whom the Cuban delegation believed to
have had close relations with Santo
Trafficante be photographs depicting
what the Cuban government believed to be
a Central Intelligence Agency
photographic surveillance base targeted
against the Cuban consulate and embassy
in Mexico City during 1963 see an essay
entitled imperialism's political
economic and military organizations and
agencies of crime such as the CIA and D
an article entitled fine
we have eliminated that Pinto in the
White House said Bob when he heard about
JFK's assassination the final work
session ended at 11:00 a.m. at 1:00 p.m.
the Cuban delegation escorted the
committee's representatives to the
airport at the airport they were bade
farewell by the Minister of Justice
Armando Torres central sinan where go
Juanita Vera and Nellie louise de Zarate
at 3:30 p.m. the HSC a representatives
and Washington consul Ricardo s carton
departed Cuba